---
title: "CROME"
excerpt: "Critical Review Of Meta-analyses in Education<br/>"
collection: portfolio
---

With the rise of evidence-based education in policy in the past decades, a strong focus has been put in the conduct of randomised controlled trials or quasi-experimental studies. This is accompanied by an increasing number of meta-analyses to quantitatively summarize the results from those studies. Meta-analyses are of particular interest to test the generalisability of research results, but also to identify sources of heterogeneity from apparently conflicting studies. In fact, a study examining a teaching practice may show different results when implemented differently, in different contexts, on different populations, or evaluated through different outcomes (Cheung & Slavin, 2016; Kraft, 2020). Thus, the effect of a teaching practice quantified by a study may not only depend on the teaching practice itself, but also on several methodological features of studies. The extent to which the existing evidence is biased because studies overestimate effects purely methodologically is currently unknown.

In this project, we will conduct a meta-epidemiological study aiming at identifying study characteristics (also called moderators) that persistently affect effect sizes in education. Meta-epidemiological studies use a meta-meta-analytic approach to take into account between- and within-meta-analysis heterogeneity of effect sizes (Sterne et al., 2002). We will rerun 247 meta-analyses (including more than 11 000 studies) included in a recent meta-review (Pellegrini et al., 2024), and test if some moderator effects persist between meta-analyses. As few meta-analyses share study-level data (only 6%), this work will need a large amount of data extraction at the study level. We will use Large Language Models to extract information from articles by mimicking the real-world 2-reviewer process with a multi-agent system (Khan et al., 2025). Accuracy of automatic data extraction will be assessed on a sub-sample of studies, and meta-meta-analyses will include probabilistic sensitivity analyses to take into account for possible misclassification of moderators (Fox et al., 2005).